+++
title = "Towards Capturing the Mechanics of Insect Flight"
date = 2017-11-01
authors = ["T. Fitzgerald"]
publication_types = ["1"]
abstract = "High-speed photogrammetry of complicated systems presents a useful method to measure the dynamics of a system without contacting it.  This can be advantageous when it would be difficult or too time-consuming to alter or modify a system with sensors.  A key area where this is needed is the study of insect flight.  Using multiple, synchronized cameras to capture free flying insects permits natural untethered flight and behaviors to be captured, reconstructed, and analyzed.  The mechanics of the fluid-structure interactions of insect flight is a vibrant multidisciplinary topic.  Advancements in this field could lead to both better understanding the natural world as well as our ability to design mechanisms inspired by nature.  The ability to accurately reconstruct the motion of free flying insects presents a treasure trove of data.  Using this information as inputs to numerical fluid-structure simulations would permit modeling and load estimation.As a preliminary starting place, a pair of high speeds cameras are used to collect stereo images for a known-body undergoing some time-dependent deformation. A common difficulty in general reconstruction is having parts of body not visible in all the images.  These occlusions present many modeling difficulties.  However, if the body's geometry and material properties can be estimated then a geometrically-exact nonlinear finite element model can be constructed to model its behavior.  Using this dynamic model, inputs from the photogrammetry are used with an Extended Kalman Filter to aid in the estimation of the entire state of the body.Special thanks to the Haythornthwaite Foundation and the Applied Mechanics Division of the ASME.  The Research Initiation Grant funded the cameras and other tools used to make this work possible."
featured = false
publication = "*International Mechanical Engineering Congress & Expo (IMECE)*"
+++
